Okay, John Donatich, you're just talking about writers, professors, something that you had launched into what I thought was a very interesting observation about these savvy professors.
Yeah.
Well, I think one of the things that I've been trying to think about with the five imprint structure of the press, which is to say the core academic center, then there's the art list, which I think is at this point peerless, but there's a general interest list and a reference list and a small language list.
The way I approach it is that I like to think that our activities should be
almost as various as the university's activity.
So most of our press will be kind of research-driven content that might make it into a graduate seminar, but there will be, once in a while, occasions for a book that's done for pleasure, whether it's the Raoul Jouffy's book on the Monde de la Vemme, which is my friend Dr. Lyon.
of books that would have a little corollary in the activities of Yale as being, you know, kind of master's tea or a lecture by a visiting professor who comes in and addresses undergraduates.
So I think the lighter side of our list has a real place and has a real mirror to what Yale does.
I also think we want to be a one-stop shop publisher for a lot of academics.
A lot of them don't have the old ambivalence about wanting to be public intellectuals as well as true scholars.
So there are two aspects of their intellectual life.
One is doing pure research, and then one is doing public intellectual work.
They want to reach out to an audience greater than their peers.
I think at Yale, with our academic and our general interest interest, we're more equipped to do both.
I think that's an important thing to recognize.
Would you say something about the writers themselves?
There's a lot of people who sort of take a look at how scholarship matters in the world, and they reach out and look at the faculty at Yale itself, people like John Lewis Gattis, and you can name any number of them, who are often within the op-ed pages, who are often profiled in
popular magazines, and his opinion and guidance is being had more a lot for the current affairs and things like that.
He was a young scholar, political scientist that we called these past years, called Jacob Hacker, a real rising star, and he's here at Yale, and he operates in precisely that way, which is a really good, grounded scholarship,
made relevant by commentary on current events.
A question for you, and it's also one of the two areas that Frank Turner thought would be with Microsoft.
And you think that this is really part of the mission of the university press, and that you think that Yale does manage to do in a couple of areas.
And it isn't often the case, you know, especially with a globally sensitive press, as the press is and as the institution is, to more or less
kind of support the curriculum.
I have books that emerge from disciplines that are practiced at the university, in particular books, psychoanalytic books and child development books.
There are real theories in those fields
which are absolutely outstanding and almost emerge directly from programs that are taught here.
And also, he said, by virtue of effect, there's a very strong psychoanalytic community in New Haven.
And he said, we ought to look at that.
That's kind of something you never hear anything about.
And so I asked Janice, you know, maybe we could pull some figures on that and maybe give me some people to talk to that you didn't give me their name or something.
I think it was on the publication committee.
Child development.
Caston, Ellen Caston.
Right.
Yeah, I think that's good.
So, I mean, that's an interesting, kind of boring in a way, but not really.
Because I do wonder.
So it's a question.
I mean, do you think that the press has an obligation to more or less support the curriculum?
Yeah, I think that's definitely a part of our mission.
And it's also, you know, not even, I don't even look at it as an obligation as a kind of, you know, what is at the core of the universities doing, David.
And I think we should mirror the strength of Yale.
I mean, you talked about psychoanalysis.
It's probably one of the few interests who actually do still publish.
It's a fairly, you know, a senior crowd that we publish right now.
It's Kernberg and Sternberg.
We just bought a new book by Lawrence Schengel, a guy who wrote Soul Murder and Father, Father, Can't You See Him Burning.
And he, you know, like at least half of the population, lives in the West Side and New Haven.
And he's a classic for his analysis.
And the book is called Haunted by Parents.
And we're publishing that in the fall.
So I think your verb is better than mine, to say support the field.
No, that's a mirror of the activity that's going on.
That's far better.
You know, I was thinking about this the other day.
And I was looking over my calendar, and I go to three professional publishing meetings.
I go to the AAP, which is the trade division.
I go to the PSPA, which is the professional college division.
And I go to the AAUP, which is the university press division of the trade organizations.
And I thought, how different these three
Mindsets are, philosophies of life and doing business are.
As a trade publisher, we all have the bias that we know what people should like.
And we are going to go out there and kind of promote
our taste-making habits.
This is what you should be interested in.
This is a book, this is a writer, this is an approach that we feel you should know.
A professional, Scali Press, approaches it completely different.
They go out and they talk to professors and they say, we want to do a textbook on this.
What do you need?
What do you use?
How can we develop something that's different and better than what you use already?
And then they find the writer to execute that plan.
So it's totally market-driven.
The first imagines the market, promotes it.
The second actually goes to the market and develops for it.
And then the university press is completely irrelevant.
And it's the purest kind of publishing, because we have proven over and over again that monograph sales are diminishing.
And yet, at the same time, this is the work of true scholars.
And so it's completely, all of its interests, all of its philosophies are completely sort of ignorant, willfully ignorant of the marketplace.
And we're mirroring what the Academy does.
We can't survive doing just that, but it's a definite part of what we do do.
And so the other two philosophies have to complement and provide for that core academic obligation.
So when you mention that book that you're publishing this fall,
What's your expectation for it in terms of sales?
That one, we'll probably sell about 2,000 copies of that.
So sales are irrelevant.
But there are other kinds of books that are even tougher.
We'll probably only sell 300 to 500 copies.
And they have to be generally supported by our endowment and other things.
But at the same time, we do it because we feel that's our mission, and that's our covenant.
But you do still feel that books that may only read two to five hundred, you still feel that it's correct to publish that book?
Depending on the book.
In today's world.
I think we're... Good, thank you.
I think the thing that we're paying a lot of attention to is what's going to be our electronic... When you're anticipating questions.
Yeah.
I've been doing a lot of thinking about this.
I think we're getting ready to think about books being available in different forms.
Part of the biggest existential question that it's asked us to do is to take a look at what absolutely needs to be a book.
I think certain kinds of books are in an age of information where data and research is available ubiquitously.
We're doing just fine.
And it's pretty reliable.
Is there a little tape in that?
Oh, yeah.
Now you need a voice reading machine that will just transcribe for you, with the working machine.
I tried.
You get 95% of it right.
And it reads things as real words.
It doesn't show up as typos.
Sometimes it can make them very easy.
I still do it the old-fashioned way.
Go ahead.
I'm sorry.
All right.
So I think it's essence to bring the bar up a little bit in deciding what ultimately needs to be a book.
You know, I think that given electronic and the web world and how they're making information available so politically and
It makes us wonder, what are the things that make a book a book?
And there are a number of things that we think about.
It's not just market, but it's also, is there a narrative drive to it?
Is there something that you need to sit down and have unfold between covers for a year?
Is there a symphony of argument?
that would be impossible to keep track of electronically.
There are certain books that have a kind of passion for research that's almost polemic.
I think scholars in a community like this demonstrate this.
When that passion for research is almost visceral on the page, that needs to be a book.
When a master scholar is juggling 15 different arguments, theoretical and empirical, and weaving them together in a very artful way, completely interdependent, that needs to be a book.
What doesn't need to be a book is incremental progress in a certain discipline
that is going to be just a little bit ahead.
It might as well be a journal article.
How about dissertations?
Dissertations, you know, we've been on two dissertations in the last couple weeks.
It depends on quality, it depends on scope, it depends on maturity.
I think that when a dissertation shows some promise of a scholar being able to manage any of those elements we talked about,
then we go for it.
What I'm trying to compile, and Frank Turner, I think Spence may have, and I know Morgan is, and it's just the process of having people tell you what they are.
But important, the dissertations that were published that have proved to be very important, and are, if not very important,
even if the dissertation itself doesn't become a great book, it does allow the scholar to turn and mention his own, which was published by the Ayer.
So I'm going to try and find maybe a dozen of those.
That'd be great.
Because you know it's a loser.
I've had jobs financially.
99 times out of 100.
And it's certainly not going to be the person's best work.
It's the beginning world.
But we do have this institutional obligation, I guess, to publish the roots of research.
That's right.
But not in every instance.
And Turner said there was a time not so long ago, if you're a pretty great doctor or candidate, the expectation was, I mean, it's a good dissertation, that it would get published somewhere by a university press.
And so that's not so much the case anymore.
That's right.
And he thinks, and a lot of people think that maybe this is where the electronic alternative
has a real role to play.
And I know Robert Darton feels that way too.
Maybe this is the way.
How do you feel about it?
Columbia has been working on this particular initiative.
We were talking about it just this morning, and there are all kinds of things to take a look at where all you would do is digitize a work, a file, a book, and then have it be available.
The technologies are
progressing at this point where there's a lot of different objects.
So would you design it the way you design?
I think you would have those kind of templates.
Yeah, I think it would be a template design.
You wouldn't just merely photograph a manuscript and put it online.
I think you would have to typeset it into a sort of template.
And I think the thing that's going to be interesting about this is that once you have done that, and it's still some aspect of our editing, some aspect of our design, of our development,
And once that's online or available for you in a digital archive, you can go and print it.
Print-on-demand, a book, a physical book when you need to do it, a hardcover book when you need to do it, a small rental hardcover book, a granular digital access version of it, an e-book, and sort of an audible downcast, which is something we're working with as well.
We have a company called Caravan.
I should let you eat your lunch.
Okay.
We're back online, but that's a whole other story for another time.
If you'd like to read it...
What did we talk about last year?
We were talking about electronic publishing.
Have you ever thought of doing a book that's entirely electronic?
I think what we would do is we may get there eventually.
I think more likely what will happen is a very short-run, hardcover book.
with some digital long life to it.
I mean, there's this theory of a long tail going on right now.
And, you know, we're still waiting to see if that kick in, but there is no reason.
Amazon's been a very important company for that.
They can represent a higher list of being available somehow.
You know, when you go to a bookstore, by definition, you can have a little bit of inventory.
It has yet to be a book that's born digital in terms of the media press.
Yes.
It has not been.
And you don't know when that might happen.
I think in a few years it'll happen.
Or at least I know sooner than that what will happen is some combination of things.
But you don't see Yale following the route that, say, Columbia was still... Or Rice.
You know, Rice University just completely went digital.
And there may be an aspect of it.
Really?
Why are they failing so miserably?
You know, I think they took a look at how their books were selling and where they were selling and that people would, you know, they're in certain disciplines that make it okay to go electronic.
I think, you know, the sciences and a lot of economics and social sciences.
Which makes sense.
Yeah.
They've already done that.
I think when you're a humanist, though,
Professor Humanity, the book is the work.
If you're a scientist, if you're going to write a book, there are other reasons, not for career advancement, not for research.
It's because you are polemicized, you are romanticized, you are popularized.
It's not because you synthesize, it's not because
But for a human is, the book is the work.
That's what you're working for.
Are you familiar with the Bible Jammadi essay from Frank?
No, I'd love to see this.
I don't know this at all.
I don't know.
You mentioned it a couple of times, and you couldn't recall the title.
Oh, if you find the source, I'd love to read it.
In fact, I actually thought that Bart would go on in his assessment.
I'm very curious to track the track.
He talked about donors to the press, and he gave me some thoughts on that.
You know, whenever people
One way to look at the Yale University Press is to look at the careers of, to this point, three directors.
Now you've been there, what, two years, three?
Three and a half now.
Yeah, very well.
How would you like to see your... How would you like to stand, would you like to stand?
Well, I think what I'd like to sort of think about is in a few ways.
I think I'm trying to recognize and organize the press by...
the fact that we have these five imprints.
So I think there's a new respect for its complexities and the fact that we're five different kinds of publishers and that we have to operate within each of these conferences differently.
That's important.
Second, I think we're trying very hard to organize within the trade group and the academic group a couple of series I think that people do really good work.
And one of the things I'm most proud of is I'm starting a new series called The New Republic of Letters.
And we have a donor on the hook, and hopefully by the time you
show your manuscript to us.
We can write this in ink.
But it's a wonderful builder who's going to give us several million dollars as a foundation from which we can draw to translate works, literary fiction and poetry and ballet and philosophy.
That's great.
Yeah.
You know, I have a very good friend who's a Turkish editor working in France.
And when we invaded Iraq, he called me up and he said, OK, hotshot, name me five Iraqi writers.
And it couldn't even work.
And it goes, okay, they made a dozen Arabic writers.
And I got up halfway there.
And I thought, you know, my bookshelves are cram-packed with translations in Spanish, French, Italian, Egyptian, Arabic, Egyptian.
But I couldn't find anything from the Middle East except for Israeli writers.
And I thought, this has to change.
You know, this is a kind of ruleful ignorance.
This is a refuse to know our enemies, humanize them, and this needs to change.
So the idea was to actually begin with... Sorry, I neglected you guys for a little bit.
I'm a little crazy.
You want a coffee?
I'd have a coffee.
Regular?
With coffee.
Sure.
And so the first person that we signed up is a Syrian poet named Adariz, who lives in Paris.
And he's a wonderful, complex, lyrical, epic modernist.
And so we're going to be doing a collection of his poetry, where you can sign up a wonderful Chinese novelist named Sam Shua, who is, it's like reading
It's like reading Borges and Kafka in the middle, retelling Chinese folk tales.
Fantastic stuff.
And translation to be able to say that.
Yes.
Very little known here.
And so this, I feel, is a true mission for the press to be a kind of global consciousness.
Are you launching that now?
Yeah, we'll do this.
Probably the first book will be happening in a year and a half or two years.
I think it's going to be a landmark translation series.
Are you going to call it the New Republic of Letters?
That's where it is right now.
Yeah, yeah.
New Republic of Letters.
And I feel that in this country,
fewer than two percent or less than two percent of the books published in this country are translations that's so different than that's all that's shocking and it's very different from what the rest of the world operates and in fact in scandinavia the number of translations are high from english and so there's a xenophobia about how we do it and there's also you know business logic the translations are expensive they're hard to do they're hard to market um hard to know about if you don't read a native language
So we're going to build a sort of network of scholars, fluent, and translated fluent in the various languages, and then pull together.
And is it all contemporary writing?
No, I think it's going to be mostly 20th century, but we'll go backwards as well.
Some classics that have never been translated, that need re-translating.
Some writers have been poorly translated.
Another series we're doing is the Yale Younger Playwrights, Yale Drama Series, which is kind of an equivalent of the Yale Younger Poets.
So when is it?
We just announced it, got a lot of press, and our first judge is going to be Edward Albee, and we have a million-dollar grant to fund this.
and the Ornn Foundation.
And so the winner gets... Is this going to be annual?
And the winner gets a $10,000 prize and then a stage reading at the Yale Rep.
So it's a whole Yale thing.
I'm really proud of this one.
When will the first one be announced?
Probably next year.
Well, maybe in town.
Yeah, I think so.
Because I am writing about the Yale Younger Poets.
Right.
This is a new...
emerge from that?
It's a model for it.
Yeah, it's a model for it.
The book suggested this.
This is something where the money came to us.
So this is one of those cases where the donor comes from with a good idea.
The donor came along with money.
We came up with the idea.
So the donor wanted to do something good.
Yes.
And we came up with it.
In both these cases, in fact.
That's what happened.
Well, that's the kind of thing we want to know more about.
Yeah, yeah.
And maybe the press hasn't done so much of that.
It's certainly a priority for me.
And here are two big events that are happening that I'm really proud of.
Well, it's also a case, however, of those who might say, well, this is the donor calling the shark.
It's not.
No.
It's the donor donating money.
That's right.
Where you come up with something that you'd like to do, a concept.
Yeah.
And then we develop it together.
And, you know, as far as the public, you know, that donor wanted to do something loved
I love things with translation because his wife is a translator.
It was a natural fit.
What was the amount of that?
That was $3 million.
It's not signed yet, but it's looking good.
Are these like friends in Yale?
This is a man who was Ted Margellos.
He's a goose green magnet.
and his daughter was graduating here from Yale, and so Yale knew about him, and when I talked to the director of development about ideas that I had, this is one of them, a little light went on, and I had a guy for Yale, and that's how it happened.
You know, how often does that happen when somebody, this particular donor, you know, I'm talking about this specifically, did the donor want to give something to the press or something to the university?
It's channeled your own way.
Right.
That's right.
I think that's an answer to Frank Turner's comment, that basically, yes.
So we've done a lot of the work.
We've done a lot of proactive work ourselves recently.
That's great.
I'd like some detail on these, if I can, to get them in.
They belong in that particular discussion.
We just started another fund to honor Yavislaw Pelican.
I don't know if you had the honor to leave.
Is it still possible?
He died.
When did he die?
He died about, gosh, just around the New Year.
No, no, March.
I missed that.
Oh, I'm sorry.
I think it wouldn't have been possible anyway.
He was declining.
I requested it last year and he was called it.
What's nice about this is that we're making a film with his name, the Pelican Flax, full of works in the intellectual history of religion.
I think he wasn't really seeing people.
It's a discipline.
I feel like I missed anyone boring once by about a month.
A remarkable guy.
I think he spoke like 16 languages.
It's a funny story.
One of my first weeks at the press, I remember it was a freezing day, and I was at my desk, and I felt a presence in the room, and I turn around.
He's a remarkable looking guy.
He was in his 80s, but he carried himself like he was in his 60s.
And he just had these sprays in his eye.
And he came in, and he looked at me very mischievously, and he said, I smell a slob.
Oh, that's great.
And I repeated this to him later, and he said, and that was upwind.
Really?
That's wonderful.
Who was it?
One of my... Actually, one of the girls, I think.
She said, well, 1991, 1992, probably four or five books on the list.
So 4,000...
That's all.
As a highlight.
And I wonder, you know, what's the case now?
Well, you know, it's interesting.
I can give you these figures exactly.
Which I've asked for, but I'm curious.
In 2005, I actually showed it as a slide, because Tina Weiner did it as a point to the board.
I think we had 12 books.
that sold over 5,000 copies.
In which year again?
This past year, yeah.
And then seven books over 10,000 copies, and then two books over 30,000 copies.
Which were the two over 30?
The Gombrich and the Fukuyama.
The Gombrich?
What happened?
Yeah.
Again, tell me about that.
That was a great little story.
Yeah, John Michael and I, John Michael had been following this for a while, and then at a London book fair,
He took me to dinner with the original publisher, Dumas, and the granddaughter, Damage.
A wonderful young woman.
And we had like a four-hour dinner and just talked and talked about it.
But the story of its publication, I think, is really wonderful.
He wrote this in, and we can check the date on this, but it was in the middle 30s when he was about 26 years old.
And there it was.
He was a Jew in Vienna.
The heat of history is on his way.
And he had finished his doctorate.
He didn't have a job.
And he was trying to decide what to do with his life.
And he took a summer job in a journal publishing house.
And the editor who got him the job said, you know, if you read manuscripts for me, here is a proposal to do a kid's history of the world.
And he read it.
He says, you know, it's fine.
I can do much better.
And the publisher said, OK, you have six weeks.
And for six weeks, he locked himself away from the library and reviewed everything he had read, which was pretty wonderful.
And in the evenings, he'd see his girlfriend, which was to be his wife.
And he would read it aloud to her, and she would correct it and say, that's condescending, that's patronizing, that's too complicated, that's not song-like enough.
And they made it into it.
It's wonderful.
I've read the book aloud in manuscript to my daughter, Anna, in a tree.
And it's a book to be read aloud to a young mind.
Because what he does that's so infectious is that it's an invitation to do history, to understand why it's important.
And it's got this sort of romantic awakening of a book lover, implicit in it.
So you're teaching a young mind to care and to be molded by books and to be seduced by it.
And it's timeless.
Absolutely.
He has this one little image that I love where he writes a little piece of paper and drops it down a well and looks over.
and you can see the piece of paper lighting up at first, taking a blaze, and illuminating the walls of the cave, and getting darker and darker, dimmer and dimmer, and you don't have to look harder and harder at it, and supply some of your own imagination to make out one there.
Yeah, you should.
Yeah, it's a beautiful image.
It's in the book.
And he goes, that's a metaphor for doing history.
So it was published in, I think, 20-something languages, but never in English.
Because he was interesting why.
He had this prejudice that the British, and he was really thinking about Brits versus Americans.
at this point.
He thought that the British history was too monarchical, and they wouldn't understand his view of the world.
And I think it's a great little distinction.
It's funny.
Yeah, it is very funny.
Because he didn't spend most of his life in England at the Warburg.
It doesn't make any difference about publishing the book in that language in that case.
Right, exactly.
So what are we doing?
But then late in his life, he decided to do it and translate it, and his wife was helping him.
And then 9-11 happened in 2001, and I think he fell into a deep depression because it seemed to confirm something that he grappled with in the book over and over again, which is this sort of history progresses to a catastrophe, a moment of evil, and then recluse that the human spirit survives it.
And I think he didn't want to tell that theme again.
He didn't want to sort of struggle for that revival.
And he was, at that point, I think he knew he was mortal, obviously.
It's a very moving ending.
But his wife and his granddaughter did a Yogan's life part to finish this.
And it's a wonderful story.
It is.
Yes.
You and John Nickell had your eye on it.
Yeah, we had our eye on it.
We bought the book.
John Nickell left, and then Robert Baldock published it beautifully.
He had to beat up the trades on it.
It's natural.
I think that people were, you know, didn't know about it or forgot about it.
And I think the family liked it being with a reputable University Press House.
People liked that.
He's always been published by places like Fyden.
Yeah, the great press, the New York Times wrote a wonderful article about it.
Yeah, it was really fun.
You know, this is to be continued, so you don't have to feel like you have to cover everything.
It's actually not as simple as that, I think.
I think they all have specializations, which they then, you know, work with them.
We have a language editor, we have a history editor, two, three history editors, in fact.
The art historian,
I think what happens is, you know, like our literature editor, John Conco, will also do politics.
He will also do politics and the history editor will also do some religion and the science editor will do some health and wellness and burning books.
It's not so much of where
Every single editor does have a specialization, but they're clear to move outside a little bit or across.
And the nature of discipline and the nature of study is changing.
It's increasingly cross-disciplinary.
So the more you know, the more you know.
And I think the better thing about, or an asset of being a generalist is that, at least for the trade list, not for the academic list, for the trade list, there's a sort of, you know, need to be a layperson, need to be educated.
So you have that eye for, is the author successful in communicating to me?
He's not a specialist.
And Mary Nash, what she'd like to see in this book is a lot of attention to editors.
And Polka would definitely be one.
You thought Jonathan Brent, hadn't you?
Jonathan, I heard.
Yeah, good.
I now need to follow it up with him.
I understand that the Stalin papers are now coming, so I didn't have that.
Oh, yes, that's another big issue.
And he raised a lot of money from Hoover to do that.
Well, you know, what a great coup that is for the press.
You know, not everybody thinks so.
I know.
I thought that was a very... I said, well, what do you mean?
He said, well, you know, we're talking ideological stuff now.
It's quite astonishing.
And he said he agreed with it, but you'd be amazed at how many people really question the propriety.
Oh, I think that's absolutely right.
Of the Yale press.
You're totally alert to that.
Oh, I know about it, yeah.
I mean, this sort of was already in play by the time I got here.
So it was sort of traditional already.
Because they started publishing this up ten years ago.
So I just interjected.
I said, well, if there was a problem with that, why wouldn't there be a problem with the China stuff?
I mean, I'm not getting into the issues that he would develop subsequent to that.
But he said, no, no, we're talking politics.
We're talking 20th century politics.
You're talking art that's 3,000 years old.
That's totally irrelevant.
He said, you know, it's about...
But I interrupted.
Well, no, I think there is, you know, the issues are basically, you know, communism and, you know, and anti-communism and the U.S.
left and its, you know, love for communism.
And all of a sudden there's this
a mother mold of material that has been made available.
And much of it cooperates on its side.
But it seems to me that that's the mission of the university.
You don't judge it.
You make sure it's accurate.
You publish it.
That's right.
I don't see the problem with that.
I mean, you know, it's sort of interesting because yesterday we had a couple of books that were at an editorial meeting that could be fairly controversial.
And what is our position on advocacy scholarship?
What do we do with that?
That's a good one.
That's a new phrase.
Because there's a lot of scholars who are... Do we do any of that?
Yeah.
I'm sure we do.
Well, I'm trying to think.
One book that we signed up recently was a book on bankruptcy.
And should bankruptcy not be an economic...
you know, with social welfare, should it be a social morality issue?
And should bankruptcy not be aided by a government?
Should it be a kind of timeless American bootstrap?
You know, it's almost oxymoronic, isn't it, to play advocacy scholarship?
I mean, it suggests that you're cutting the baggage from the point of view.
Right.
You know, you even became your resource.
Maybe I'm misreading it.
Well, you know,
It shouldn't happen that way, but it often does.
A lot of people would pretend that a scholarship leads you to a position.
You may start with a point of view, to be sure, but you also allow the research to take you where it goes.
People would say the same thing about any scientific hypothesis.
You go into an experiment trying to prove something.
That's right.
If you're working towards an already predetermined conclusion,
I think it would have to, in a way, unless it took its own contradictions.
So what's the consensus of the editorial?
We actually passed on one of them and took another one that was less egregious.
But I mean, is it a discussion?
Oh, yeah.
Would people have points of view on it?
Definitely.
We're very mindful of it, and we try to stay away from the first kind that you described, which is scholarship with... The nose of a scholar.
Yes, led by the nose.
Or, you know, scholarship, you know, knows something out.
I mean, for me, the big kick is I don't know if it really were an old deal, but the excitement is in discovery.
That's an interesting way of looking at it, too.
I was thinking a lot about this as far as electronic publishing.
I'm doing research online.
I feel like I'm in a video game where I'm distracting meteors.
I'm a hundred things away.
Things are just coming at me too fast and irrelevantly, and I don't want to.
When I'm walking down an aisle in a library, the light is not getting to where I want to get.
It's almost as if I want the distraction.
Please surprise me.
I've said it any number of times.
The joy of browsing in a library or a secondhand bookstore
It's not the book you go in to find.
It's the book you never knew of.
It didn't even exist until the moment you discovered it.
But you say, wow, you know, I have this book.
It's fascinating.
And that happens all the time in the library.
Yeah.
And it's the best thing.
It's exciting.
It's thrilling.
Yeah.
Often I'll just note the first number in a catalog and just go to the general area.
Have you ever read of the London Library in St.
James?
Oh, it's wonderful.
Wonderful.
Where they say it's associated browsing.
I mean, what a great answer.
Really, my book's at home.
Really, one thing leads to another.
I don't know what your schedule is, but I don't want to... How much more?
We'll meet together, if you like, but... I think that... Do you know what the new math books were published in the 60s?
No.
What is this?
You see, Larry, the cash cow, apparently, the cash cow, in recent years, apparently, has been the artworks, right?
Now, changing them.
But...
Back in the 50s or the 60s, there was a book of books that Yale was allowed to publish and generated tremendously.
It was subsidized by the book.
It was all in the new math.
She said, well, this is our new math.
She kept calling it the new math money, the new math book.
How great is that?
So that really wasn't the title, but it was all about the new math.
And you don't know anything about it.
I don't know anything about it.
I can't wait to read your book.
What would you like to see most in a kind of celebratory history?
I think that there is a, I mean, I think, you know, these, much like any life, I suppose, or any individual life, they're, you know, like a scholar led by the nose,
You often think you're abiding by certain principles and guided by certain lights.
It turns out often that there are very different things at work that bring you to where you are.
I'd love to know if there's a healthy balance between those two things.
There's a healthy balance between those two things.
We're very principled and we're very deliberate and we're very forward-looking.
But what are the surprises that Jabez, you know, and have Jabez and got us here?
That's something that I would like to know more.
And I've learned a lot already just from your session notes.
I'm on the right track here?
I do think you are, yeah.
It sounds like I'm exploring some interesting things.
Yeah, absolutely.
Like I said, I can't wait to read this.
I've learned a lot.
I'm learning a lot from just at lunch.
Well, the new math books, we'll have to know.
Do you have any figures on standing orders from libraries?
It's hard to tell right now because most of it is done for jobbers.
and wholesalers.
Many of them don't order direct sales.
People over here in this conversation think I'm asking the most word.
It's very important in how the culture works.
There was a time not so long ago when you published a book and you would know instantly that it's going to have a guaranteed sale of
two or three, four thousand years?
Yeah, oh no, that's gone.
That's gone.
And that's why the crisis in university press publishing is happening, because those monographs used to be published and bought by university admissions libraries.
It's no longer the case, and they'll tell you that.
I mean, I was on a, I had lunch yesterday with a comic book professor, and she was shattered by my comment, you know, where I was on a panel, I think she'd done it all the time,
And they asked a librarian, a big city system librarian head, if I give you X dollars to support modern graphism and humanities in the next five years, how would you greet that?
And she said, I get on my knees and ask you to let me change how to spend this money.
And I'd want to invest in computers, and I'd want to invest in people.
I think it's largely true.
I'd like to see our backlist get better and we're taking strides to make that happen.
I think because of the, first of all, the kind of glamour of our
frontless trade.
Whenever you're ready.
Thank you.
The glamour of our frontless trade business and our art history list makes it so that, you know, the frontless always sticks along a little bit better.
But we're making a lot of progress in building core documents.
What percentage of your sales do you think?
I'll get that from John.
Yeah, John can give it to you.
I think the last thing that I heard was about a 54% or something.
Well, not really.
Well, maybe a 54% or 46% back.
But, you know, some prices are 60, 40, 70, 30, you know.
But when do you decide to put those out of print?
Right.
You know,
And there's a time when nothing will ever have to go out of print because of print-on-demand.
We're actually bringing things back into print because of POD and things like that.
A lot of authors aren't happy about that.
Well, the choice is, of course, out of print.
Out of print.
And if somebody would tell me I could get the rights of General Madness by my ticket in a minute, it would be something.
It's not like the jargon.
But they're not going to give that back, because it's up.
So let's see.
There's other stuff there.
I guess a philosophical question.
Do the potential sales of a proposal get you into your decision to publish it?
Especially in the trade division, yes.
In the academic division, no.
And that's pretty straightforward.
It's a trade book.
The only reason to publish it is because it's a contribution and the course is over.
Yeah, the course is over.
And the academic division, we don't look at that.
We've discussed that in other areas of the House.
So I would say we've covered a pretty good area here.
OK.
And if you don't know about the right amount of money, I've got to find it.
Yeah.
Let's do it that up.
I'd love to see it.
Let me talk about dissertation.
All right.
Perfect.